Announcements, News and Moving Away From Modals (#256)
openSUSE/obs-landing: _posts/development/2020-06-01-announcements-news-modals-and-actions-links.md

---
layout: post

> title: Making Project and Package Pages More User Friendly, improved Announcements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Making Project and Package Pages User-Friendlier and Improving Announcements.
```

category: development
---

> For you to be more productive on the go, away from your computer we have worked on making it easier for you to change projects and packages in smaller screens in the OBS UI. By removing modals and grouping contextual actions into their own menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For you to be more productive on the go while away from your computer, we made it easier for you to change projects and packages on smaller screens in the OBS UI. We removed modals and grouped contextual actions into their own menu.
```

> Additionally we discovered we had the need to communicate with only some of you in the OBS. For instance we want to announce changes to the workflows only to those of you who participate in our beta. For this we have worked on the announcement features for admins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, we discovered we need to communicate with only some of you in the OBS. For instance, we want to announce changes to the workflows only to those of you who participate in our beta program. For this, we have worked on the announcement features for admins.
```

> # Making Project and Package Pages More User Friendly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Making Project and Package Pages User-Friendlier
```

> On the project and package pages in the UI there were a lot of modals. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the project and package pages in the UI, there were a lot of modals. 
```

> Modals are not user friendly on small devices and especially when they contain a large form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modals are not user-friendly on small devices and especially when they contain a large form.
```

Having that in mind, almost all modals are now moved into their own pages.

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/sprint_77_submit_package.png" width="600px"/>
  <figcaption>Forms like this in a modal? Not anymore.</figcaption>
</figure>

> Also the actions that could be done on Project and Package were all over the page.

Reviewer: Starting a sentence with `Also` is not so great.

How about something like this:

As for the actions which could be done on Project and Package, they're now all together in the `Actions` menu instead of being all over the page.

They are now all together in the `Actions` menu.

<img src="/images/posts/sprint_77_actions_menu.png" width="600px"/>

> The package details are now editable in-place, making it easier to use for small devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The package details are now editable in-place, making it easier to use on small devices.
```

<img src="/images/posts/sprint_77_edit_package.gif"/>

> # Announcements and News

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Improving Announcements and News
```

> If an Admin has some news in OBS to share with users, he had the posibility to add text on the front page or make announcements for everybody.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an Admin has some news in OBS to share with users, he had the possibility to add text on the front page under the `News` section or announce something to everybody through `Announcements`.
```

> Now, an Admin can share some news with an specific group of users, for example, users in our beta program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An admin can now share some news with a specific group of users, for example, users in our beta program.
```

---
layout: post
title: Making Project and Package Pages User-Friendlier and Improving Announcements.
category: development
---

> For you to be more productive on the go while away from your computer, we made it easier for you to change projects and packages on smaller screens in the OBS UI. We removed modals and grouped contextual actions into their own menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the goals we pursue currently is to make you more productive on the go, while away from the computer. So we have spend some time to make it easier for you to change projects and packages in all screen sizes in the OBS user interface. 
```

> Additionally, we discovered we need to communicate with only some of you in the OBS. For instance, we want to announce changes to the workflows only to those of you who participate in our beta program. For this, we have worked on the announcement features for admins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, we identified that we often need to communicate with only some of you inside the OBS. For instance, when we want to announce changes to those of you who participate in our beta program. To be able to do this better in the future, we have worked on the OBS admin messaging feature.
```

# Making Project and Package Pages User-Friendlier

> There were a log of modals on the project and package pages in the UI.
> 
> Modals are not user-friendly on small devices and especially when they contain a large form.
> 
> Having that in mind, almost all modals are now moved into their own pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There were a lot of modals on the project and package pages in the UI. Modals are not very user-friendly on smaller screen sizes, especially when they contain a large form. So we moved almost all modals to their own pages.
```

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/sprint_77_submit_package.png" width="600px"/>
  <figcaption>Forms like this in a modal? Not anymore.</figcaption>
</figure>

> As for the actions which could be done on Project and Package, they're now all together in the `Actions` menu instead of being all over the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another source of poor user experience was that actions you can do to projects and packages, like branching or editing, where scattered all over the page. To make this easier we grouped them all together in the `Actions` menu. 
```

<img src="/images/posts/sprint_77_actions_menu.png" width="600px"/>

> The package details are now editable in-place, making it easier to use on small devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally the package details are now editable in-place, making it easier to use on all screen sizes.
```

<img src="/images/posts/sprint_77_edit_package.gif"/>

# Improving Announcements and News

When admins had to share some news with OBS users, they had the possibility to add a message in the News section of the main page. When the message was very important, they also had the possibility to add Announcements on the top of the pages and required acknowledgement from the user.

Both ways to display messages have been merged and improved.

> From now on, announcements can be created as regular news (status messages) but with a certain severity that makes them be visible on the top, all over the application. They also require acknowledgement from the user.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From now on, announcements can be created as regular news (status messages) but with a certain severity that makes them visible on the top, all over the application. They also require acknowledgement from the user.
```

Reviewer 4: done @krauselukas

---
layout: post
author: danidoni

> title: Announcements, News and Fleeing from modals

Reviewer: The capitalization is wrong: https://capitalizemytitle.com/

Author: Fixed

category: development

> ---

Reviewer 2: We need a lede. What is this post about and why should I invest my precious time in reading this when I have 342 other tabs open with potential interesting stuff?

https://www.clearvoice.com/blog/the-dos-donts-of-writing-a-good-lead-according-to-dear-megan/

Author: I've got one. Check it out.

# Announcements and News

> Sometimes only certain groups of users need to be aware of something. For example, only for beta users, for admins, etc. Sometimes the announcement is so important that it has to be visible all over the web site and force the user to acknowledge. But sometimes it is enough to display the message inside the News box (status messages).

Reviewer: There are way too many `sometimes` in this paragraph. A bit of variety or restructuring the sentences would help a lot here.

Author: Rephrased

> Sometimes only certain groups of users need to be aware of something. For example, only for beta users, for admins, etc. Sometimes the announcement is so important that it has to be visible all over the web site and force the user to acknowledge. But sometimes it is enough to display the message inside the News box (status messages).

Reviewer 2: You switched from writing for yourself to writing for no one. You accurately describe the reasoning to build this feature, but *why* does it matter to the people who use OBS? And *what* is in it for them, the benefit.

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/sprint_77_announcements.gif" width="600px" />
  <figcaption>Here we see the new Announcements feature.</figcaption>
</figure>

> # Fleeing from Modals

Reviewer: This sounds weird. I suggest using `Moving Away from Modals`.

Reviewer 2: That we are moving away from modals is a technical fact. It doesn't mean much to people. **Why** are we moving away from modals?

Author: Fixed

> Following our previous work with the modals, all the relevant modals from Project and Package Overview pages have their own pages.

Reviewer: relevant?

So all modals or not? Which are relevant?

Author: Well, I've been looking at which dialogs we still have around and definitely not all modal from Project Overview are migrated to their own pages. So the relevant modals are the most important ones, for example, editing a project details is migrated, but the modal asking for confirmation for a project deletion is not.

> Modals are not user friendly on small devices and more in OBS case, due to most of the modals contains large form. Having that in mind, those modals with forms have their specific pages. This change is not only intended to increase usability on small devices but to keep you focused in what you are doing.

Reviewer: The sentence `Having that in mind, those modals with forms have their specific pages` is pretty much a repetition of the line 19. It's not needed.

> Some of the modal dialogs changed were: project maintenance release, submit as update, create package, among others.

Reviewer: To be consistent, use `modals` instead of `modal dialogs`.

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/sprint_77_submit_package.png" width="600px"/>
  <figcaption>Here we see the Submit Package feature in its own page.</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/sprint_77_branch_package.png" width="600px"/>
 <figcaption>Here we see the Branch Package feature in its own page.</figcaption>

> </figure>

Reviewer 2: I don't think it makes much sense to show this visually. It's not much different.

Author: I've removed some of the captions. Some others have a more meaningful content

> # New additions in Beta program

Reviewer: The capitalization is wrong: https://capitalizemytitle.com/

Author: Fixed

> We kept working on the `actions menu`. On this deliverable the contextual links of subproject, user, repositories and attribute tabs from Project and Package are now inside this menu. The links from Package Overview are also in the `action menu`.

Reviewer 2: `deliverable` is something that only makes sense to your and your team mates. It means nothing to the people reading this.

Also, *why* should people care? What is the benefit to them?

Author: I've explained why. Check it out

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/sprint_77_actions_menu.png" width="600px"/>
  <figcaption>Here we see the action menu.</figcaption>
</figure>

The edition of the package details was changed from a modal to a in-place edition, making it easier to use for small devices.

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/sprint_77_edit_package.png" width="600px"/>
  <figcaption>Here we see the In-place package editing.</figcaption>

> </figure>

Reviewer 2: I think this should be a gif showing the workflow. Maybe @saraycp can help with this?

Author: I've replaced the image with a gif of the mobile version, where it's shown how much better it is to edit some project's details now.

# Improving Announcements and News

When admins had to share some news with OBS users, they had the possibility to add a message in the News section of the main page. When the message was very important, they also had the possibility to add Announcements on the top of the pages and required acknowledgement from the user.

Both ways to display messages have been merged and improved.

From now on, announcements can be created as regular news (status messages) but with a certain severity that makes them be visible on the top, all over the application. They also require acknowledgement from the user.

> But the most important improvement is related to the communication scope. Sometimes, admins want to send messages to specific groups of users. For example, they want to announce a new feature only to users in the beta program.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The most important improvement is related to the communication scope. Sometimes, admins want to announce something only to a specific group of users. For example, they want to announce a new beta feature only to users of the beta program.
```

> Now this is possible for both announcements and regular news.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now this is possible for both announcements and regular news section.
```

Reviewer 4: done!
